Adding race/ethnicity glossary to BLISS (#1652)
ihmeuw/vivarium_research: docs/source/model_design/general_reference_material/bliss/race_ethnicity/index.rst

that doesn't mean they are less important than race, ethnicity, and ancestry.
We may address these concepts in a future guide.

Glossary of General Terminology
-------------------------------
In this section, you will find a glossary of general terminology and acronyms that will be used 
throughout this style guide. 

.. list-table:: **Glossary**
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Term
     - Definition
   * - Race
     - A social construct with no inherent biological meaning that categorizes people primarily based on a few visible characteristics such as skin and eye color, hair, and facial features. 
   * - Ethnicity
     - Broad cultural group identities. These groups can share language, food, art, religion, social norms, and so on. 
   * - Ancestry
     - Broadly, characteristics of one’s ancestors. In this guide we refer to geographic ancestry, where your ancestors are from, or lived approximately 500 years ago.
   * - Racism

>      - The belief that race influences factors outside of the few visible characteristics listed above (skin color, hair, eye color, etc.). Racism often has been used as a justification to see some people as superior or inferior in some dimension of intelligence, abilities, or qualities. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - The belief that race reflects biological factors outside of the few visible characteristics listed above (skin color, hair, eye color, etc.), such as intelligence, abilities, or qualities, and the ways in which individuals, communities, and systems of power oppress people as a result of this belief (whether or not it is explicit or conscious).
```

I think this _might_ get a bit closer to pulling in the perspective @NathanielBlairStahn mentioned in the Word doc?

Reviewer 2: Yes, I definitely like Zeb's suggestion better: It frames the factors in the 2nd sentence as merely examples of what the 1st sentence is referring to, rather than separate beliefs that need to be justified by racism, and it brings in the core idea that racism is related to oppression.

I still have a couple issues with it, so here's a stab at revising Zeb's version:
```suggestion
     - The belief that race reflects biological factors outside of the few visible characteristics listed above (skin color, hair, eye color, etc.) -- such as intelligence, abilities, or other qualities -- and the ways in which individuals, communities, and systems of power oppress people in alignment with this belief (whether or not it is explicit or conscious).
```
Specifically:

- The word "qualities" is vague and includes things such as intelligence and abilities, so I changed it to "other qualities." If anyone has a more specific thing they want to name here, we could put that instead.
- The sentence is now a bit long and harder to parse, so I replaced some commas with dashes to try to help... not sure whether that's the best solution.
- I changed "as a result of" to "in alignment with." This goes back to my (controversial?) argument that racism is the excuse invented to justify the oppression, rather than being the original cause (though certainly there is a positive feedback loop between the two).

Reviewer: I prefer this to what I wrote!

Author: Thanks both! I basically took Nathaniel's but broke it into two sentences for clarity, I found the single sentence a bit confusing still. If you feel this takes away some impact I can adjust though.

>      - The belief that race reflects biological factors outside of the few visible characteristics listed above (skin color, hair, eye color, etc.), such as intelligence, abilities, or other qualities. It also refers to the ways in which individuals, communities, and systems of power oppress people in alignment with this belief (whether or not it is explicit or conscious).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     - The belief that race reflects biological factors outside of the few visible characteristics listed above (skin color, hair, eye color, etc.), such as intelligence, abilities, or other qualities. Racism also refers to the ways in which individuals, communities, and systems of power oppress people in alignment with this belief (whether or not the belief is explicit or conscious).
```
Channelling my 10th grade English teacher, Mrs. Reed...

   * - Scientific Racism
     - An attempt by scientists to prove racist theories in order to justify discrimination and allow for racist systems of inequality to continue. The science used was blatantly incorrect and has been debunked. These racist theories are especially dangerous as they can appear to be from valid sources, even though they are not valid science. 
   * - Institutional Racism
     - A form of systematic discrimination, based on race or ethnic group, in which societal policies or practices create an advantage for some groups and harm for others. Also known as structural, societal, or systemic racism.  
   * - Ethnic Discrimination

>      - The belief that an ethnic group is inherently superior or inferior in some dimension of intelligence, abilities, or qualities. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     - The belief that an ethnic group is inherently superior or inferior in some dimension of intelligence, abilities, or other qualities. 
```
Same comment as above: "Qualities" is too vague and includes intelligence and abilities.

>      - The belief that an ethnic group is inherently superior or inferior in some dimension of intelligence, abilities, or other qualities. 

Author: Thanks! I added the sentence from the racism definition here to expand this to include the action part as well as the belief.

   * - Unconscious Bias
     - Any biases that people have but are not consciously aware of. This can include things not related to individuals or groups such as confirmation bias, or being more receptive to information that aligns to their prior beliefs, and to biases towards individuals or groups, such as favoring people from their own race or ethnicity group, even if they don’t knowingly think that people who are different are inferior. 
   * - Race-essentialism
     - The belief that racial groups form discrete genetic categories; that individuals of the same racial category are biogenetically similar; and that different races are fundamentally different. 

>    * - Race-based

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * - Race-based research
```

I think this is what is meant? Same goes for race-conscious below

     - The use of race as a key marker in research or policy. This is built on a belief in race-essentialism. 
   * - Race-conscious
     - A new approach to how research can include race. Race-conscious research attempts to be aware of the historic roots and the pervasive, systemic nature of oppression, in touch with social reality, and open to the importance of race, while understanding that race itself is a social construct without biological significance. Instead, it frames discrepancies seen between races as a result of historical context or racism.
   * - Social construct

>      - Any idea or concept that doesn’t have its basis in objective reality but is real because society believes it to be so. Some examples might include the value of money (paper is not inherently valuable, it is valuable because society has collectively agreed that it is), what is fashionable currently (skinny or wide-leg jeans are only better because we believe it to be so), and racial groups. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Any idea or concept that doesn’t have its basis in objective reality but is real because society believes it to be so. Some examples might include what is fashionable currently (skinny or wide-leg jeans are only better because we believe it to be so) and the value of money (paper is not inherently valuable, it is valuable because society has collectively agreed that it is). Though they have tremendous impacts, racial groupings are social constructs.
```

Just an idea how to make the tone of this one less jarring (going from skinny jeans to racism).

   * - Health disparities
     - Differences in health outcomes, such as life expectancy, disease burden, or other adverse health conditions between different groups of people within a population. The term is often used to describe differences seen between racial or ethnic groups, but it can also be applied to differences observed across any individual characteristic including geographies, gender, sexual orientation or socioeconomic status.

>    * - Risk factor
>      - Attributes, characteristics, or exposures that increase the likelihood that a person develops a disease or health disorder. Risk factors are diverse and can span attributes such as diet, physical activity, alcohol use, genetics, age, and experiences of discrimination.
>    * - Risk marker
>      - Similar to a risk factor but not thought to be causally related to the development of a disease or health disorder. Race and its relationship to cardiovascular disease is an example. Some races have higher rates of cardiovascular disease, and while these might be caused through experiences of racism, race itself is not thought to be causally linked with CVD.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * - Risk factor
     - Attributes, characteristics, or exposures that biologically increase the likelihood that a person develops a disease or health disorder. Risk factors are diverse and can span attributes such as diet, physical activity, alcohol use, genetics, age, and experiences of discrimination.
   * - Risk marker
     - Similar to a risk factor but not thought to biologically cause the development of a disease or health disorder. Race and its relationship to cardiovascular disease is an example. Some races have higher rates of cardiovascular disease, and while these might be caused through experiences of racism, race itself is not thought to be causally linked with CVD except through those social experiences.
```

Here's an idea for how to differentiate these two more precisely

Author: Hmm I changed this but not exactly as written. I worry the "social experiences" makes it seem like the one pathway here is mostly or only interpersonal, instead of larger societal pathways. I adjusted it to try and include both more clearly.

Reviewer: Yeah it's always confusing how "social" can mean "between a few people" or be a synonym of "societal" and it's often hard to tell from cntext. I think your rewrite is better 👍

   * - Nativity
     - The general definition refers to the occasion of one’s birth. However, it is used here to mean the country someone was born in. 
   * - Colonialism

>      - The policy or practice of acquiring full or partial political control over another country, occupying it with settlers, and exploiting it economically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - The policy or practice of acquiring full or partial political control over another country, possibly occupying it with settlers, and exploiting it economically.
```

Not all colonialism is settler colonialism: https://link-springer-com.offcampus.lib.washington.edu/chapter/10.1057/978-1-349-95232-8_10
